Add CNYUSD as price identifiers (#97)
UMAprotocol/UMIPs: UMIPs/umip-29.md

## Technical Specification
The definition of these identifiers should be:

-----------------------------------------
- Identifier names: **CNYUSD**
- Base Currency: CNY
- Quote Currency: USD
- Result Processing: None
- Price Steps: 0.000001 (6 decimals in more general trading format)
- Date Source: TraderMade
- Input Processing: None. Human intervention in extreme circumstances where the result differs from broad market consensus.
- Rounding: Closest, 0.5 up
- Pricing Interval: 10 minutes
- Dispute timestamp rounding: down

## Rationale
Prices are primarily used by Priceless contracts to calculate a synthetic token’s redemptive value in case of liquidation or expiration. Contract counterparties also use the price index to ensure that sponsors are adequately collateralized. 

TraderMade has adequate CNYUSD data and has been used as a data source in previous price identifiers.

Tradermade’s price feed is an aggregated feed from multiple Tier One and Two Banks, Market-Makers and Data Providers. They are popular with Quantitative Traders, Fintech companies and Institutional customers who require a high quality and trusted feed.

> ## Implementation

Reviewer: The resources you provided are good, but this section should also give the steps that a voter should take to resolve a price. What endpoint do they query, how do they determine the time to query it at, what do they do after getting the price back

### TraderMade Historical API
TraderMade has CNYUSD historical data available with a 10 minute granularity. 

Example endpoint here: 
```
https://marketdata.tradermade.com/api/v1/minute_historical?currency=CNYUSD&date_time=2020-11-11-13:50&api_key={apikey}
```

The response is:
```
{
  "close": 0.1509, 
  "currency": "CNYUSD", 
  "date_time": "2020-11-11-13:50", 
  "endpoint": "minute_historical", 
  "high": 0.1509, 
  "low": 0.1509, 
  "open": 0.1509, 
  "request_time": "Tue, 29 Dec 2020 09:02:04 GMT"
}
```

> From briefly playing around with this, it should be noted that requests that do not fall on the 10 minute interval do not return data. Voters should round time down or up to the closest 10 minute interval if they request the price which doesn't fall on the 10 minute interval.

Reviewer 2: I would remove the language "from briefly playing around with this"

The rounding solution seems fitting to me, but I think you should change the "pricing interval" in the tech specs to 10 minutes then.

| UMIP Title | Add CNYUSD as price identifiers              |
| Authors    | Shankai Ji, jishankai@gmail.com |
| Status     | Draft                                                                                                                                  |
| Created    | December 16, 2020                                                                                                                           |

## Summary (2-5 sentences)
The DVM should support price requests for the CNY/USD price index. 

## Motivation
The DVM currently does not support the CNY/USD index.

Supporting the CNYUSD price identifier would enable the creation of a Chinese Yuan FX derivative, backed by USD. Token minters could go short on the CNY/USD index, while token holders could go long or use synthetic fxCNY for functional purposes.

## Technical Specification
The definition of these identifiers should be:

-----------------------------------------
- Identifier names: **CNYUSD**
- Base Currency: CNY
- Quote Currency: USD
- Result Processing: None

> - Price Steps: 0.0001 (4 decimals in more general trading format)

Reviewer: Is the intention to use this price id with USDC as collateral? If so, this should be 6 decimals to match the precision of USDC

- Date Source: TraderMade
- Input Processing: None. Human intervention in extreme circumstances where the result differs from broad market consensus.
- Rounding: Closest, 0.5 up
- Pricing Interval: 60 seconds
- Dispute timestamp rounding: down

## Rationale
Prices are primarily used by Priceless contracts to calculate a synthetic token’s redemptive value in case of liquidation or expiration. Contract counterparties also use the price index to ensure that sponsors are adequately collateralized. 

TraderMade has adequate CNYUSD data and has been used as a data source in previous price identifiers.

Tradermade’s price feed is an aggregated feed from multiple Tier One and Two Banks, Market-Makers and Data Providers. They are popular with Quantitative Traders, Fintech companies and Institutional customers who require a high quality and trusted feed.

## Implementation

> ### TraderMade Historical API

Reviewer: We need to pick one of these and match the `Pricing Interval` to the granularity of the data. I recommend going with the 10 minute granularity and providing instructions on how voters should round time down to the closest 10 minute interval.

There is also an hourly granularity endpoint here: 
```
https://marketdata.tradermade.com/api/v1/hour_historical?currency=CNYUSD&date_time=2020-10-10-13:00&api_key={apikey}
```

The response is:
```
{
  "close": 0.1493, 
  "currency": "CNYUSD", 
  "date_time": "2020-10-09-13:00", 
  "endpoint": "hour_historical", 
  "high": 0.1493, 
  "low": 0.1493, 
  "open": 0.1493, 
  "request_time": "Tue, 29 Dec 2020 11:59:02 GMT"
}
```

### TraderMade Live API

TraderMade also has a live-data endpoint for USDCNY here:
```
https://marketdata.tradermade.com/api/v1/live?currency=CNYUSD&api_key={apikey}
```

The response is:
```
{
  "endpoint": "live", 
  "quotes": [
    {
      "ask": 0.15313, 
      "base_currency": "CNY", 
      "bid": 0.15313, 
      "mid": 0.15313, 
      "quote_currency": "USD"
    }
  ], 
  "requested_time": "Tue, 29 Dec 2020 12:00:50 GMT", 
  "timestamp": 1609243250
}
```

### Weekend Price
Over the weekend the REST API does not return any price, but we can request the price of a certain moment before the market close (as ex: the closing price of Friday).

> Due to unavailability of price feed for any financial asset over the weekend, tokenholders and users will be using the latest known price, before the market close on Friday, which esentially is the closing price of the asset from Friday. Same goes in a case of a liquidation process - the liquidator should use the last price from Friday in order to match with the price on which a synthetic asset was created, if it was created over the weekend. If not the closing price on Friday for a certain asset should be a navigating point in calculating the collateralization ratio of a position and in the liquidation process.

Reviewer: Small nitpick, but more specifically a lack of availability for FX here. 

```suggestion
Due to unavailability of price feed for foreign exchange rates over the weekend, tokenholders and users will be using the latest known price, before the market close on Friday, which essentially is the closing price of the asset from Friday. Same goes in a case of a liquidation process - the liquidator should use the last price from Friday in order to match with the price on which a synthetic asset was created, if it was created over the weekend. If not the closing price on Friday for a certain asset should be a navigating point in calculating the collateralization ratio of a position and in the liquidation process.
```

If a request timestamp takes place on a weekend or any other day the Forex market is closed, voters should use the latest tick as the price. For the weekend that would be the closing price of the asset on Friday.

> 

Reviewer: Pulling language from EURUSD UMIP draft to clarify that TraderMade is an example source.

```suggestion
TraderMade is provided as an accessible source to query for this data, but ultimately how one queries for these rates should be varied and determined by the voter to ensure that there is no central point of failure.
```

> ## Security Considerations

Reviewer: Recommend some language on the security considerations around not having data available over the weekend/certain holidays. https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/pull/102/files should be a good reference

| UMIP Title | Add CNYUSD, USDCNY as price identifiers              |
| Authors    | Shankai Ji, jishankai@quarkchain.org |
| Status     | Draft                                                                                                                                  |
| Created    | December 16, 2020                                                                                                                           |

## Summary (2-5 sentences)
The DVM should support price requests for the CNY/USD and USD/CNY price indexes. 

## Motivation
The DVM currently does not support the CNY/USD or USD/CNY indexes.

Supporting the CNYUSD price identifier would enable the creation of a Chinese Yuan FX derivative, backed by USD. Token minters could go short on the CNY/USD index, while token holders could go long or use synthetic fxCNY for functional purposes.

There is little cost associated with adding this price identifier, as there are multiple free and easily accessible data sources available.

## Technical Specification
The definition of these identifiers should be:

-----------------------------------------

> - Identifier names: **CNYUSD**

Reviewer 3: Why do you think it's necessary to have both a USDCNY and a CNYUSD identifier? Isn't one sufficient to cover all possible use cases?

Author: It's not necessary to have both. The reason that I defined two was that I studied other UMIPs and each pair had two identifiers. It's more simple and clear if there is only one.

- Base Currency: CNY

> - Quote Currency: USD(C)

Reviewer 3: Isn't the quote currency USD because the identifier is tracking the CNY USD exchange rate not the CNY USDC rate?

Author: The reason that I used USDC was that I could only get CNYUSDC price from Coinbase & Coingecko API. If we use forex API, the quote can be changed to USD.

- Result Processing: 1 / Average USDCNY
- Price Steps: 0.000001 (6 decimals in more general trading format)
-----------------------------------------
- Identifier names: **USDCNY**
- Base Currency: USD(C)
- Quote Currency: CNY 
- Result Processing: Average
- Price Steps: 0.01 (2 decimals in more general trading format)
-----------------------------------------

> - Exchanges: Coinbase, Coingecko.

Reviewer 3: Are crypto exchange APIs the best data providers of CNY USD? I would have thought it'd be better to use APIs like [one](https://exchangeratesapi.io/) which serves ECB data.

Reviewer 2: Interesting - that one you linked @nicholaspai -- It's free?  And are you suggesting that we might form a price ID on taking the average of multiple APIs?  Such as https://exchangeratesapi.io/ AND tradermade?

Author: Great!  I checked it and it is free. However, we can only get historical data by day on https://exchangeratesapi.io and it's impractical.

- Input Processing: None. Human intervention in extreme circumstances where the result differs from broad market consensus.
- Rounding: Closest, 0.5 up
- Pricing Interval: 60 seconds
- Dispute timestamp rounding: down

## Rationale
Prices are primarily used by Priceless contracts to calculate a synthetic token’s redemptive value in case of liquidation or expiration. Contract counterparties also use the price index to ensure that sponsors are adequately collateralized. 

> Coinbase is a top exchange of the world. It is used by most of the price identifieres of UMA. Luckily, we can get USD(C)/CNY price by its api and it will be easy to add this price identifier.

Reviewer 3: We are not restricted to using crypto exchanges as data providers, as explained in an earlier comment. I think we will get the most reliable data if we use several FX APIs that aren't necessarily focused on crypto data.

Author: Got it. I have tried to find free or cheap FX APIs with better granularity data but I failed. Any recommendations would be appreciated.

### Coinbase Live API

The Coinbase live USDC price API is available at the following URL:

```
https://api.coinbase.com/v2/exchange-rates?currency=USDC
```

The response data uses the following JSON format:
```
{
  "data": {
    "currency": "USDC",
    "rates": {
      ...
      "CNH": "6.537747",
      "CNY": "6.5507",
      "COMP": "0.006490977541217707",
      "COP": "3433.494963",
      ...
    }
  }
}

```
You can get CNY price in rates.

### Coinbase Historical Data API

The Coinbase historical USDC price API is available at the following URL:

```
https://api.coinbase.com/v2/prices/USD-CNY/spot?date=YYYY-MM-DD(UTC)
```

The response data uses the following JSON format:
```
{
    "data":{
        "base":"USDC",
        "currency":"CNY",
        "amount":"6.5487"
    }
}

```
You can get CNY price in amount.

### Coingecko Live API

The Coingecko live USDC price API is available at the following URL:

```
https://api.coingecko.com/api/v3/simple/price?ids=usd-coin&vs_currencies=cny
```

The response data uses the following JSON format:
```
{
    "usd-coin":{
        "cny": 6.56 
    }
}

```

> ### Coingecko Historical Data API

Reviewer: Awesome stuff explaining these endpoints. Thanks for adding clarity here.
